# Personal Weather Reporter

#### Video Demo:(https://youtu.be/TF25TgsJ7ak)

#### Description:

Hello. This is a python program that delivers a weather report of the day upon each run of the code. While I was thinking of ideas for my final project online, I stumbled across a reddit post of someone saying to code something that will fix a problem you have. So I began to think to myself "What do I struggle with?". Suddenly, I got the idea to code a weather report sender that provides simplified, concise information. Sure you can argue that looking up the weather on your phone might be faster, however, bombarding your brain with that much information in the morning can be dangerous. Therefore I opted for this simplified design.

This program implements 3 imports and 0 pip installed libraries. The first import "smtplib" is used to send emails. The second import "re" is used to utilize regular expressions. The third import "requests" is used to utilize an API. The program starts off by asking the user to input their email address. The validity of this input is confirmed by the "verify" function. This function utilizes a regular expression to confirm whether the user has inputted an email address. While this regular expression cannot catch all errors, it is acceptable because the real regular expression is too long and infeasible to incorporate. If the user's input is not an email, the user will be reprompted to enter an email address due to the infinite while loop within the "verify" function. Once the email has been confirmed, the "weather" function is called. This function makes use of a national weather service API. After requesting for the API to deliver the weather information, I reassign the forecast information to a seperate variable and then assign the individual attributes within that seperate variable to more variables. Within this function, I also used a simple if-elif-else conditional to provide a clothing recommendation to the user. Lastly, I compile the variables into a variable and return it. Then I pass the user inputted email and weather report into the "send" function. This function utilizes the "smtplib" library to login into my personal email address and send it to the user inputted email address. To confirm send status, the program outputs a message to the terminal. Possible use cases for this program may include running it in the morning to get a simplified idea of what to expect later on in the day.

There were multiple instances where I had to debate on certain design choices. The first instance was deciding which library to use for sending the email to the user inputted email address. I chose to use the "smtplib" library because it appeared to have the most straightforward approach. Another instance was when I was implementing the weather API. I had the chance to utilize either the "forecast" or the "hourly forecast" information of the API. Upon first glance I was going to use the "forecast" however since my code is meant to be used in the morning and provide the weather for later in the day, I chose to use the "hourly forecast" segment of the API. This ensures that users will recieve data on how the weather will be for most of the day rather than just the morning.
